To create the textures for the pillars I think we need to go through just a slightly different process.
I'm going to go back to that U-V editing lay out now and and isolate the floor and select one of the
pillars here I'll just select this one and I'll isolate it.
Now if I go into edit mode and select everything we can see the U.V. map here.
What am I to do is I'm going to take this U-V map in and use it as a template to lay the texture on
to the islands in GIMP and then I'll save that image out and bring it back to here because whatever
we place over these U-V islands will be seen on our object.
Whereas whatever is outside of these U-V islands won't be seen at all.
So to export a U.V. map out of Blendr I'm going to in the U-V editor here I'm going to press the key
and select everything and then I'm going to go to use these and then peer at the top of the menu I'm
going to choose export U-V lay out.
Now I'm going to export this out into my images folder.
I'll give it a name here.
I'll call this pillars Uvas.
And for the size of the image I'm going to go ahead and change this from 10:24 to 2048
and are image textures usually need to be in powers of two.
So 256 512 10:24 2048.
And since the rendered image I'm planning on rendering this out at 12 80 by 720 which is the lower end
of the HD resolutions it's a good resolution for Internet video streaming.
Things like that.
But since it's going to be 12 80 by 720 and those pillars may at one point in time at the end to be
as high as the frame I'm going to go ahead and go with 2048 just to be safe so I'll click export.
And there we go.
So let's go into Gimp and take a look at that here in Gimp.
I'll go to File Open and I'll choose my Pillar's Uvas
and you can see here it's got this kind of translucent image of the UVA's here so that anything we put
in a layer under neath here is going to show through and we can see whether or not it's going to be
within the U-V islands or not.
I'm going to use that same sandstone texture that we used for the other objects.
So I'll go find that and what I want is the sandstones seamless Riego.
So here are press control or command a to select everything press control or command C to copy and then
I'll come back to my Uvas document and press control or command V to paste.
Now it's going to be kind of big.
So I'm going to zoom out a bit with the minus key.
Now that this has been pasted in I've got this floating selection layer over here and I can't really
do anything until I make this an actual new layer so I'll just come over here and click new layer and
that will create a new layer with that pasted in.
So now if I zoom out with the minus key you can see the frame of the new pasted layer.
But it's a little big.
So I'm going to come over here to the scale tool right here.
And then click and now I have access to this scale tool that will allow me to click and drag and reduce
the size of this namak click scale.
Now you can see it in front of the click the move tool here and move it around so you can see it there.
Now I really want to see the movies in front of this.
I'm just going to take this layer and drag it down below the Uvas.
Now I can see it.
I'm going to press shift plus to zoom in a bit.
I'm going to drag this and place it right over the pillar and I'll scale it a bit more.
And click and drag this out so it fits over the whole pillar.
And hit enter.
There we go.
So that will overlay our pillar.
Now for these pieces up here I think I want it to be a little smaller.
I'm going to duplicate this layer here with this button here.
And then I'm going to select that and I'm going to pull this up go to the move tool and pull this up
there a bit.
I'm going to press the spacebar to move up a bit so I can see this.
So select that layer go to this scale tool and click drag this so it's a little bit smaller like so
and then move it down over these like that.
All right now what I'd like to do is put some sort of imagery some sort of Egyptian hieroglyphics and
I have some of that but I found out on the internet I'll go to File Open and I've got an Egyptian painting
file here.
I'll open that up or press command a and then command C to copy and then come back over here to the
pillar press command V to paste and there it is.
Now it's up here at the top so I'm going to press a new layer to create a new layer from that.
Now I can go to my move tool here and move it around and move this down.
So it is kind of over the main part of the pillar here and I'll scale it
down like this.
Hit enter to apply.
Now I need to pull it down below the pillar you use just to make sure I can see where it is and we go
now.
It's got quite a different color than the pillar it doesn't look like it's part of the rock.
So I think what I'll do is I'll change the blending mode a bit.
I'll come up here to normal and maybe try let's try overlay
and that's not bad.
Now multiply Let's try and multiply
that's a little too dark.
I'll go back to overlay.
And let's bring down the opacity.
Here I'm going to click and drag the opacity.
That's looking a little bit more like it's actually part of the stone now.
Something like that.
Now what I'd like to do is kind of fade the edges into the rest of the pillar here.
So what I can do is come over here to the erase brush and maybe turn the opacity down some and let's
increase the size of the brush.
And I'll just come through here and just click and drag and try and blend that into the rest of the
pillar here.
I'll do this here on the bottom as well.
We'll see if that blends in.
All right.
I think we're ready to export this out and at least see how it's going to look.
We save this first and then I'll go to a file export as and I'll put this in my textures folder and
I'll call it Pillar's color I think is good and I'll export.
All right let's go back to blender now here in Blender what we need to do as we've done before is bring
that image texture here into our note.
So I'm going to press shift a and I'll bring in a texture coordinate node First of all and then I'll
press shift day and go to texture and bring in an image texture.
And I'll open that file in the textures folder here.
Go to Pillar's color and click open and there we have our image.
Now there is a problem.
You can see the Uvas on the image.
Why is that.
Well it's because I forgot to turn them off.
So let's go back to Gamp and do that.
So here in GIMP this layer here is the U-V wires you can see them here.
If I turn this layer off turn the visibility of the layer off.
Then we just get this and that is what we want.
I'm going to click on zoom in here when I click on the open icon here the open image reast select that
pillars and open that again.
And there we go.
I'll go ahead and hook up the U-V coordinates and the color to the diffuse Shater.
And there we go there's our column.
And you can see the seams back here.
Right.
Remember we made sure that the seams were pointing away from the camera and that's why we did that but
other than that it looks pretty good.
So we could also bring in a bump map.
But another way to do that instead of going back to Gimp.
Well we can do is we can duplicate this image texture node with shift D and move it aside here.
And then of course we can create that same bump map node right here.
But what we can also do I'm going to change the color to non-color data but in addition we could use
a converter node the R.G. be too black and white put that right in here.
That will convert it to black and white then take that to the bump node and then from that to the material
output.
So just another way to create a black and white image that we can use.
All right let's go back to our main default view here.
And there we have our pillars.
But notice what happened.
We also have that same texture on our beams and that's not exactly what we want.
That's because when I created the material I created a material for the pillars and the beams and that
was just to temporarily get some color on the objects.
So what I can do is choose one of these beams create a new material slot create a new material call
it beams I'll change the old one to just pillars and I'll get rid of the pillars material for the beam
objects.
Here we go.
So now I can select the various beams here.
And then finally select the beam with the new material and then press control L and materials and that
will assign that material to all those other beams.
So now we've got our pillars with the proper material.
However take a look at the pillars the pillar caps here.
They too still have that same material.
So I select one of those.
And once again add a new material call this polar caps.
Remove the pillar material select all of these Schiff's select that one last and then control L. and
materials and that assigns that to all those other polar caps.
All right we've got our pillars set up in the next video we'll keep going on the textures for the rest
of our objects.